Julie # CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

  In console.rb

  property1 = Property.new(new_property1)
  property2 = Property.new(new_property2)
  property3 = Property.new(new_property3)



Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

   In property_tracker.rb, save method


   def save
     # save the order to the database
     # connect to the database
     db = PG.connect({ dbname: 'properties', host: 'localhost' })
     sql = "INSERT INTO properties (address, value, number_of_bedrooms, year_built)
     VALUES ($1, $2, $3, $4) RETURNING id"
     my_values = [@address, @value, @number_of_bedrooms, @year_built]
     db.prepare("my_save", sql)
     # execute the SQL query
     new_property = db.exec_prepared("my_save", my_values)
     @id = new_property[0]['id']
     # close the connection to the database
     db.close
  end







Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?


  property1.value = 300000
  property2.number_of_bedrooms = 5
  property1.update
  property2.update




Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

 Because the database automatically generates an id for each of our rows.



Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

  in the save method of property_tracker.rb
  In setting up the sql statement we use RETURNING id, ie returns the id.
  The exec_prepared returns an array of hashes. @id will be equal to array index
  [0], key 'id' value.


  def save
    # save the order to the database
    # connect to the database
    db = PG.connect({ dbname: 'properties', host: 'localhost' })
    sql = "INSERT INTO properties (address, value, number_of_bedrooms, year_built)
    VALUES ($1, $2, $3, $4) RETURNING id"
    my_values = [@address, @value, @number_of_bedrooms, @year_built]
    db.prepare("my_save", sql)
    # execute the SQL query
    new_property = db.exec_prepared("my_save", my_values)
    @id = new_property[0]['id']
    # close the connection to the database
    db.close
 end











Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

  @id = details['id'].to_i if details['id']


  will only assign to @id if there is a value for details['id']. When object instantiated
  there is no 'id'.






Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
 The instance methods use instance variables.  The class methods are standalone methods that just do something, they don't need instance variables????




Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

s  An array of hashes is returned by 'db.exec_prepared()'

  new_property = db.exec_prepared("my_save", my_values)
  @id = new_property[0]['id']

  @id will equal the 0 index hash 'id' value.




Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

  Prepared statements protect against SQL injection attacks.



## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

 def Property.find(id)     id

 def Property.find_by_address(address)    address


Q11. What are their return values?


 both return the below

 return Property.new(found[0])  

 returns one hash ie one row from database. Not sure why it has to be an object ie .new??
